= Open DSL

Open DSL is a DSL (Domain Specific Language) builder which aims to provide a highly readable DSL and the flexibility to integrate with existing Classes in your system. Open DSL uses OpenStructs internally when creating collections of attributes.. hence the name :)

== Basic Example

    open_dsl do
        Finance do
            tax do
                rate "17.5%"
            end
        
            accounts do
                Account do
                    name "earnings"
                    withdrawal_limit 100_00
                end
            
                Account do
                    name "deposits"
                    withdrawal_limit 0
                end
            end
        end
    end
    
Notice that Finance and Account start with an upper-case character, just like Ruby classes. This tells Open DSL that if an existing class with the same name exists then use it, otherwise a new class of that name will be created for you. This allows you to use Open DSL on classes that already exist in your system, the advantage of this is that you can use Open DSL as a way to configure a class whilst keeping business logic and functional code separate.

In the case of Account, the class instance is assigned to the Finance instance with a name inferred from the Account class; an attribute named "account" is created which contains an instance of Account. "tax" will result in an OpenStruct being created and the "rate" attribute assigned. "accounts" is plural and therefore signifies an array containing each account.

== Installing & Usage

    gem install open_dsl

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'open_dsl'

    open_dsl do
    end
or
    OpenDsl::Builder.build do
    end

== Advanced Examples

=== Explicit Attribute Names for Existing Classes

If you have an existing class but like to assign it to an attribute with a different name or Open DSL fails to infer a nice name for it, you can explicity specify a name:

    open_dsl do
        configuration(MyConfigurationClass) do
            value_1 "foo"
            value_2 "bar"
        end
    end

Coming soon!

== Compatibility

Tested with Ruby 1.8.7 only so far.

== Contributions

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it, specs live in the specs/ directory.
* Commit and send me a pull request.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Envato, Ian Leitch. See LICENSE for details.
